RBE 2002 Sensing:
VIDEO



Project Goal:
The goal of this project was to construct and program a robot to auatonomously navigate the city of "Gotham" to find Robin's "Dristress Beacon", an IR Beacon displaying at a frequency of 1000kHz. The challge arrises from the randomization of the field. First, the locations of buildings are randomized. There are a total of 4 buildings, which can be in any plot labeled iwthin the grid. The location of Robin is also randomized, with two decoy beacons transmitting at 100Hz and 10000KHz.

With these challenges we had to design a robot that could:
1. navigate a city grid, being able to keep track of its locations to avoid buildings
2. identify the specific IR frequency of Robin's device while filtering out unwanted frequencies


1. Navigation
	To successfully navigate the city, a combination of sensor inputs must be integrated. To calculate our position, our team used a combination of encoders and a 9-DOF IMU. We created a forward-Kinematics model function to transform our encoder values into motion information. We then used a complimentary filter to combine this relative motion data with the absolute rotation data of the magnetometer within the IMU. This integration allowed the robot to know its current location at any point.

Once the ability to track its motion through forward kinematics, a set of reverse kinematics needed to be established to plan the robots motion path. We implemented reverse kinematic functions to allow the robot to move towards a target location. 

The robot tracked an internal map it stored within memory. Two IR sensors detected the presense of buildings on the side of the robot. If a building is detected, then it must search for Robin's Beacon. If it is not detected, then the robot tracks the locations of the buildings as it must search all 4 sides for Robin.

1. Find all buildings (4)
2. Search each side of each building
3. Find Robin
4. Deploy Rescue Device
5. Return to the Batcave




2. Identifying the beacon
	To identify the beacon, we constructed a "mast" with two IR-receiving Diodes mounted on the ends of the post. These diodes must then be used to identify the IR isgnal. This was done through the implementation of a second-order active band-pass filter. This filter used an Op-amp to aomplify the signal to be input into the board.

The input signal was generated by using the IR-Receiving diode as a transistor to oscillate the voltage at the beacon frequency.

Our band-pass filter was centered at the 1000KHz frequency, dampening the 10000Khz and 100Hz frequency by an appropriate amount.



Project Goal
Navigation
    Forward Kinematics
    reverse kinematics
    Path Planning
Signal Analysis
    Building identification
    Input Circuit
    Band Pass Filter
Rescue Mechanism